.TH policyd-weight.conf 5 "Aug 25th, 2006"
.ad
.fi
.SH "NAME"
policyd-weight.conf
\-
policyd-weight configuration parameters
.SH "STATUS"
Beta, Documentation incomplete

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.ad
.fi
\fBpolicyd-weight\fR uses a \fBperl\fR(1) style configuration file which it
reads on startup. The cache re-reads the configuration after 
\fB$MAINTENANCE_LEVEL\fR (default: 5) queries. If \fB-f\fR is not specified, 
it searches for configuration files on following locations:
.P
 /etc/policyd-weight.conf
.br 
 /usr/local/etc/policyd-weight.conf
.br
 ./policyd-weight.conf

.SH "CACHE SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB$CACHESIZE\fR (default: 2000)"
Set the minimum size of the SPAM cache.

.IP "\fB$CACHEMAXSIZE\fR (default: 4000)"
Set the maximum size of the SPAM cache.

.IP "\fB$CACHEREJECTMSG\fR 
.br
(default: 550 temporarily blocked because of previous errors)"

Set the SMTP status code and a explanatory message for rejected mails due to
cached results

.IP "\fB$NTTL\fR (default: 1)
The client is penalized for that many retries.

.IP "\fB$NTIME\fR (default: 30)
The \fB$NTTL\fR counter will only be decremented if the client waits at least
\fB$NTIME\fR seconds.

.IP "\fB$POSCACHESIZE\fR (default: 1000)"
Set the minimum size of the HAM cache.

.IP "\fB$POSCACHEMAXSIZE\fR (default: 2000)"
Set the maximum size of the HAM cache.

.IP "\fB$PTTL\fR (default: 60)"
After that many queries the HAM entry must succeed one run through the
RBL checks again.

.IP "\fB$PTIME\fR (default: 3h)"
after $PTIME in HAM Cache the client must pass one time the RBL checks again.
Values must be nonfractal. Accepted time-units: s(econds), m(inutes), 
h(ours), d(ays)

.IP "\fB$TEMP_PTIME\fR (default: 1d)"
The client must pass this time the RBL 
checks in order to be listed as hard-HAM. After this time the client will pass
immediately for PTTL within PTIME. Values must be non-fractal.
Accepted time-units: s(econds), m(inutes), h(ours), d(ays)

.SH "DEBUG SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB$DEBUG\fR (default: 0)"
Turn debugging on (1) or off (0)

.SH "DNS SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB$DNS_RETRIES\fR (default: 2)"
.br
How many times a single DNS query may be repeated
.IP "\fB$DNS_RETRY_IVAL\fR (default: 2)"
.br
Retry a query without response after that many seconds
.IP "\fB$MAXDNSERR\fR (default: 3)"
.br
If that many queries fail, the mail is accepted with \fB$MAXDNSERRMSG\fR.
.br
In total DNS queries this means: $MAXDNSERR * $DNS_RETRIES
.IP "\fB$IGNORE_RFC1918_A\fR (default: 0)"
.br
If enabled (1) A records with RFC1918 addresses aren't treated as bogus
addresses by policyd-weight and therefore bogus_mx_score isn't added.

.SH "MISC SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB$MAINTENANCE_LEVEL\fR (default: 5)"
After that many policy requests the cache (and in daemon mode child processes)
checks for configuration file changes

.IP "\fB$MAXIDLECACHE\fR (default: 60)"
After that many seconds of being idle the cache checks for configuration
file changes.

.IP "\fB$PIDFILE\fR (default: /var/run/policyd-weight.pid)"
Path and filename to store the master pid (daemon mode)

.IP "\fB$LOCKPATH\fR (default: /tmp/.policyd-weight/)"
Directory where policyd-weight stores sockets and lock-files/directories. Its
argument must contain a trailing slash.

.IP "\fB$SPATH\fR (default: $LOCKPATH.'/polw.sock')"
Path and filename which the cache has to use for communication.

.IP "\fB$TCP_PORT\fR (default: 12525)"
TCP port on which the policy server listens (daemon mode)

.IP "\fB$BIND_ADDRESS\fR (default: '127.0.0.1')"
IP Address on which policyd-weight binds. Currently either only one or all
IPs are supported. Specify 'all' if you want to listen on all IPs.

.IP "\fB$SOMAXCONN\fR (default: 1024)"
Maximum connections which policyd-weight accepts. This is set high enough to
cover most scenarios.

.IP "\fB$USER\fR (default: polw)"
Set the user under which policyd-weight runs
.IP "\fB$GROUP\fR (default: $USER)"
Set the group under which policyd-weight runs

.SH "OUTPUT AND LOG SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB$ADD_X_HEADER\fR (default: 1)"
Insert a X-policyd-weight: header with evaluation messages.
.br
1 = on, 0 = off

.IP "\fB$LOG_BAD_RBL_ONLY\fR (default: 1)"
Insert only RBL results in logging strings if the RBL score changes the overall
score. Thus RBLs with a GOOD SCORE of 0 don't appear in logging strings if the
RBL returned no BAD hit.
.br
1 = on, 0 = off

.IP "\fB$MAXDNSBLMSG\fR (default: 550 Your MTA is listed in too many DNSBLs)"
The message sent to the client if it was reject due to \fB$MAXDNSBLHITS\fR 
and/or \fB$MAXDNSBLSCORE\fR.

.IP "\fB$REJECTMSG\fR (default: 550 Mail appeared to be SPAM or forged. Ask your Mail/DNS-Adminisrator to correct HELO and DNS MX settings or to get removed from DNSBLs)"
.br

Set the SMTP status code for rejected mails and a message why the action was 
taken

.SH "RESOURCE AND OPTIMIZATIONS"
.ad
.fi

.IP "\fB$CHILDIDLE\fR (default: 120)"
How many seconds a child may be idle before it dies (daemon mode)

.IP "\fB$MAX_PROC\fR (default: 50)"
Process limit on how many processes policyd-weight will spawn (daemon mode)

.IP "\fB$MIN_PROC\fR (default: 2)"
Minimum child processes which are kept alive in idle times (daemon mode)

.IP "\fB$PUDP\fR (default: 0)"
.br
Set persistent UDP connections used for DNS queries on (1) or off (0).


.SH "SCORE SETTINGS"
.ad
.fi
Positive values indicate a bad (SPAM) score, negative values indicate a 
good (HAM) score.

.IP "\fB@bogus_mx_score\fR (2.1, 0)"
If the sender domain has neither MX nor A records or these records resolve
to a bogus IP-Address (for instance private networks) then this check asigns
the full score of bogus_mx_score. If there is no MX but an A record of the
sender domain then it receives a penalty only if DNSBL-listed.

Log Entries: 

\fBBOGUS_MX\fR
.in +1
The sender A and MX records are bogus or empty.
.in -1

\fBBAD_MX\fR
.in +1
The sender domain has an empty or bogus MX record and the client is DNSBL 
listed.
.in -1


Related RFCs:

[1918] Address Allocation for Private Internets
.br
[2821] Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (Sect 3.6 and Sect 5)


.IP "\fB@client_ip_eq_helo_score\fR (1.5, -1.25)"
Define scores for the match of the reverse record (hostname) against the
HELO argument. Reverse lookups are done, if the forward lookups failed and are
not trusted.

Log Entries: 

\fBREV_IP_EQ_HELO\fR
.in +1
The  Client's  PTR  matched  the  HELO  argument.
.in -1

\fBREV_IP_EQ_HELO_DOMAIN\fR
.in +1
Domain portions  of Client PTR and HELO argument matched.
.in -1

\fBRESOLVED_IP_IS_NOT_HELO\fR
.in +1
Client  PTRs  found   but  did  not  match  HELO argument.
.in -1

.IP "\fB@helo_score\fR (1.5, -2)"
Define scores for the match of the Client IP and its /24 subnet against the A 
records of HELO or MAIL FROM domain/host. It also holds the bad score for MX 
verifications.

Log Entries:

\fBCL_IP_EQ_HELO_NUMERIC\fR
.in +1
Client IP matches the [IPv4] HELO.
.in -1

\fBCL_IP_EQ_FROM_IP\fR
.in +1
Client IP matches  the A record of the MAIL FROM sender domain/host.
.in -1

\fBCL_IP_EQ_HELO_IP\fR
.in +1
Client  IP  matches  the  A  record  of the HELO argument.
.in -1

\fBCL_IP_NE_HELO\fR
.in +1
The IP and  the /24  subnet did  not  match A/MX records  of  HELO  and MAIL
FROM  arguments and their subdomains.
.in -1

.IP "\fB@helo_from_mx_eq_ip_score\fR (1.5, -3.1)"
Define scores for the match of Client IP against MX records. Positive (SPAM) 
values are used in case the MAIL FROM matches not the HELO argument 
\fBAND\fR the client seems to be dynamic \fBAND\fR the client is no MX for HELO
and MAIL FROM arguments. The total DNSBL score is added to its bad score.

Log Entries:

\fBCL_IP_EQ_FROM_MX\fR
.in +1
Client IP  matches  the MAIL FROM domain/host MX record
.in -1

\fBCL_IP_EQ_HELO_MX\fR
.in +1
Client IP matches the HELO domain/host MX record
.in -1

\fBCLIENT_NOT_MX/A_FROM_DOMAIN\fR
.in +1
Client is not a verified  HELO and doesn't match A/MX records of MAIL FROM 
argument
.in -1

\fBCLIENT/24_NOT_MX/A_FROM_DOMAIN\fR
.in +1
Client's subnet does  not  match A/MX records of the MAIL FROM argument
.in -1

.IP "\fB$dnsbl_checks_only\fR (default: 0)"
Disable HELO/RHSBL verifications and the like. Do only RBL checks. 
.br
1 = on, 0 = off
.IP "\fB@dnsbl_score\fR (default: see below)"
A list of RBLs to be checked. If you want that a host is not being evaluated
any further if it is listed on several lists or a very trustworthy list you
can control a immediate REJECT with \fB$MAXDNSBLHITS\fR and/or 
\fB$MAXDNSBLSCORE\fR. A list of RBLs must be build as follows:
.br

@dnsbl_score = (
.br
    RBLHOST1,   HIT SCORE,  MISS SCORE,     LOG NAME,
.br
    RBLHOST2,   HIT SCORE,  MISS SCORE,     LOG NAME,
.br
    ...
.br
);
.br
The default is:

@dnsbl_score = (
    "pbl.spamhaus.org",     3.25,   0,      "DYN_PBL_SPAMHAUS",
    "sbl-xbl.spamhaus.org", 4.35,   \-1.5,   "SBL_XBL_SPAMHAUS",
    "bl.spamcop.net",       3.75,   \-1.5,   "SPAMCOP",
    "ix.dnsbl.manitu.net",  4.35,   0,      "IX_MANITU"
.br
);

.IP "\fB@rhsbl_score\fR (default: see below)"
Define a list of RHSBL host which are queried for the sender domain. Results
get additionally scores of 0.5 * DNSBL results and \fB@rhsbl_penalty_score\fR.
A list of RHSBL hosts to be queried must be build as follows:
.br

@rhsbl_score = (
.br 
    RHSBLHOST1,  HIT SCORE,  MISS SCORE,     LOG NAME,
.br
    RHSBLHOST2,  HIT SCORE,  MISS SCORE,     LOG NAME,
.br
    ...
.br
);
.br
The default is:

@rhsbl_score = (
    "multi.surbl.org",      4,      0,      "SURBL"
.br
);

.IP "\fB@rhsbl_penalty_score\fR (3.1, 0)"
This score will be added to each RHSBL hit if following criteria are met:

    Sender has a random local-part (i.e. yztrzgb@example.tld)

 or MX records of sender domain are bogus

 or FROM matches not HELO

 or HELO is untrusted (Forward record matched, reverse record 
    did not match)

.IP "\fB$MAXDNSBLHITS\fR (default: 2)"
If the client is listed in more than $MAXDNSBLHITS RBLs it will be rejected
immediately with \fB$MAXDNSBLMSG\fR and without further evaluation. Results
are cached by default.

.IP "\fB$MAXDNSBLSCORE\fR (default: 8)"
If the BAD SCOREs of \fB@dnsbl_score\fR listed RBLs reach a level greater than 
$MAXDNSBLSCORE the client will be rejected immediately with \fB$MAXDNSBLMSG\fR 
and without further evaluation. Results are cached by default.

.IP "\fB$REJECTLEVEL\fR (default: 1)"
Score results equal or greater than this level will be rejected with 
\fB$REJECTMSG\fR



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
policyd-weight(8), Policyd-weight daemon
perl(1), Practical Extraction and Report Language
perlsyn(1), Perl syntax
access(5), Postfix SMTP access control table
.IP
.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
GNU General Public License
.SH "AUTHOR"
.na
.nf
Robert Felber <r.felber@ek-muc.de>
Autohaus Erich Kuttendreier
81827 Munich, Germany
