.TH policyd-weight 8 "Aug 25th, 2006"
.SH "NAME"
policyd-weight \- weighted SMTP policy daemon

.SH "STATUS"
Beta, Documentation incomplete

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
.fi
\fBpolicyd-weight\fR [\fB-option\fR] [\fB-option2 <arg>\fR] \fIcommand\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.ad
.fi
\fBpolicyd-weight\fR(8) is a SMTP policy daemon written in \fBperl\fR(1) for 
\fBpostfix\fR(1). It
evaluates based on RBL/RHSBL results, HELO and MAIL FROM domain and subdomain
arguments and the client IP address the possibility of forgery or SPAM. It is
designed to be called before the SMTP DATA command at the RCPT TO stage. 
This way it is a) possible
to reject a mail attempt before the body has been received and b) to keep
multirecipient mail intact, i.e. provide the functionality of selective usage
based on recipients.

To make \fBpolicyd-weight\fR(8) work with \fBpostfix\fR(1), it is required to 
add a system 
account for $USER (default: polw)

Policyd-weight can operate in master.cf \fBor\fR daemon mode. In master.cf
mode it uses postfix' \fBspawn\fR(8), which results in number of simultanous 
requests perl instances. In daemon mode it uses shared memory and forks on 
load, and only if all childs are busy.

At the time of writing the man-pages for policyd-weight assume a postfix
installation. It has been reported that policyd-weight works with other MTAs
like Exim, too.

.SH "SETUP"
.SH "master.cf mode:"
.IP "\fBmaster.cf:\fR"
.in -7
policy   unix   -   n   n   -   -   spawn   user=polw    
.br    
\ \ \ argv=/usr/bin/perl /usr/local/bin/policyd-weight
.IP "\fBmain.cf:\fR"
.in -7
smtpd_recipient_restrictions =
.br
\ \ \ permit_mynetworks, 
.br
\ \ \ ... authenticated permits ...
.br
\ \ \ reject_unauth_destination,
.br
\ \ \ ... whitelists, role accounts, clients ...
.br
\ \ \ check_policy_service unix:private/policy
.br
.in 7

.SH "daemon mode:"
start the daemon with \fBpolicyd-weight start\fR. Poliyd-weight then listens
on $TCP_PORT (default: 12525)  for policy requests.
To make postfix talk to that port do following changes to main.cf:
.IP "\fBmain.cf:\fR"
.in -7
smtpd_recipient_restrictions =
.br
\ \ \ permit_mynetworks,
.br
\ \ \ ... authenticated permits ...
.br
\ \ \ reject_unauth_destination,
.br
\ \ \ ... whitelists, role accounts, clients ...
.br
\ \ \ check_policy_service inet:127.0.0.1:12525
.br
.in 7

It is possible to have more than one postfix server talk to the 
\fBdaemonized\fR policyd-weight by configuring each postfix machine to query
the policy server with check_policy_service inet:IP:12525 where IP is the
host on which policyd-weight runs.


Please note that \fBcheck_policy_service\fR should come at last, or at least
\fBafter\fR reject_unauth_destination, or else you may become an open relay.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.ad
.fi
Following commands exist and are reserved for daemon mode only:
.IP "\fBstart\fR     start the policy server"
.IP "\fBstop\fR      stop the policy server"
.IP "\fBrestart\fR   restart the policy server"
.IP "\fBreload\fR    tells the policy server to reload its configuration"
.IP "\fBdefaults\fR  prints the default settings to STDOUT and exits"

.SH "OPTIONS"
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fB-d\fR operate in debug mode"
\fBNot for use in master.cf\fR.
In debug mode everything is reported on STDOUT instead of \fBsyslog\fR(3).
Also an own debug cache daemon will be spawned. The socket-file is
named after the value of $SPATH with ".debug" as suffix.

.IP "\fB-f\fR /path/to/file 
Pass a configuration file to policyd-weight

.IP "\fB-h\fR show help"

.IP "\fB-k\fR kill cache daemon"
\fBNot for use in master.cf\fR.
Together with \fB-d\fR this kills the debug cache daemon. Without \fB-d\fR it
kills the global running cache daemon.

.IP "\fB-s\fR show cache entries"
\fBNot for use in master.cf\fR.

.IP "\fB-v\fR show version"

.SH "LOGGING"
.ad
.fi
Logging is done via \fBsyslog\fR(3) with facility "mail" and priority 
"info". For a complete list of log entries and their correspondending configuration parameters refer to \fBpolicyd-weight.conf\fR(5).

.SH "BUGS"
.na
.nf
Please report bugs to r.felber@ek-muc.de

.SH "HISTORY"
.ad
.fi
.IP "March 2005"
Ralf Hildebrandt (Author of the Book of Postfix) is the spiritual father
of policyd-weight. It was his idea to have a scored RBL evaluation, I've
added the weighted MAIL FROM/HELO DNS-evaluation. For that purpose I used
Meng Wong's spf.pl which was shipped with the postfix source as example.

.SH "FILES"
.na
.nf
/etc/policyd-weight.conf, Policyd-weight configuration file
/etc/postfix/main.cf, Postfix configuration parameters
/etc/postfix/master.cf, Postfix daemon processes
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
policyd-weight.conf(5), Policyd-weight configuration file
master(5), Postfix master.cf file syntax
postconf(5), Postfix main.cf file syntax
access(5), Postfix SMTP access control table

.SH "LICENSE"
.na
.nf
GNU General Public License 
.SH "AUTHOR"
.na
.nf
Robert Felber <r.felber@ek-muc.de>
Autohaus Erich Kuttendreier
81827 Munich, Germany
